---
title: Marlowe
permalink: /projects/marlowe
layout: project
date: 2017-08-31 04:34:28
featured_image: /img/2017/08/HMB_featured.png
hidden: true

specs:
  - key: project
    value: "Marlowe"
  - key: status
    value: "Built"
  - key: location
    value: "Berkeley, CA"
  - key: size
    value: "809 sf"
  - key: team
    value: "Contractor: GPS Development; Lighting: Luminesce Design"

images:
  - imgs: 
    - /img/2017/08/1_HMB.jpg
  - imgs: 
    - /img/2017/08/2_HMB.jpg
  - imgs: 
    - /img/2017/08/3_HMB-13-copy-PROJECTS-.jpg
  - imgs: 
    - /img/2017/08/4_HMB-27.jpg
  - imgs: 
    - /img/2017/08/5_HMB-21.jpg
  - imgs: 
    - /img/2017/08/6_HMB.jpg
  - imgs: 
    - /img/2017/08/7_HMB.jpg
  - imgs: 
    - /img/2017/08/8_HMB.jpg
  - imgs: 
    - /img/2017/08/9_HMB-16-copy.jpg
---

Located in Berkeley’s vibrant 4th Street retail district, S_SK designed Marlowe’s 1st location with the mission in mind, to be “a modern, non-toxic nail care experience, defined by high-quality service in a clean and beautiful environment.” To this end, the space was crafted with a material palate and simplicity that evokes “Clean”. Simple planes of lightly colored material are mixed with warm lighting and woods. A monolithic reception desk of white marble, white Cesar stone tabletops and white epoxy floors are coupled with accents of rich walnut woodwork. Located off a newly constructed pedestrian paseo in an L-shaped space, the light filled entry is designed to be inviting for potential clients. Manicure stations, aka “The Nail Bar”, are placed under a floating white ceiling and hanging lights of white enamel and brass. This floating plane aims to bring a human scale to the high narrow space, hide mechanical and electrical equipment, while also serving as a lit surface for indirect lighting. Beyond the manicure bar, one passes the “Clean Room” on their way to the volume of space containing the pedicure area. The pedicure stations, located on raised platforms and within a comfortable and warmly lit space, provide rest and relaxation as part of the overall Marlowe experience.
